This next lecture is about reading
local what are called flat files.
Prime examples are text files,
hyper delimited text files,
comma delimited text files and so forth.
If you've actually already taken the R
programming class, you may be able to skip
this lecture, because you've
already seen how to load it into R.
So again, we're gonna go back to
the Baltimore fixed camera data.
And so,
I'm again going to download the data.
I'm gonna check to see if
the data directory exists.
And if it doesn't, I'm gonna create it,
then I'm going to download
the data with download.file.
So now the data has been
downloaded from the website and
is actually sitting on my computer,
it's local data to my computer.
So the first thing you might
wanna use to load the data is
with the read.table() function.
And so read.table() is the most common
function, because it's the most robust.
It allows you the most
flexibility in some ways in R.
It does require a few more parameters
than you would pass to some of
the other functions and
it can be a little bit slow.
So there's actually faster ways if you
need to scan through files to find
specific elements and
we might talk about those later.
It reads the data into RAM, so
it reads the data into memory.
And so if you have a really,
really big data setting caused
problems unless you read it in chunks.
Read.tables() is also probably not
the best way to read large datasets in
general into R.
So the important parameters here
are what file you wanna read,
weather is has a header?
What's the separation between elements,
weather it has row names and
how many rows do you wanna read?
The related functions read.csv and
read.csv2 will also be briefly discussed.
So if we wanna read the cameraData,
we could try just sending it to
read.table() just like this.
We say, cameraData is gonna be
the variable we're going to assign and
we're gonna use the read.table command and
we're gonna read the file cameras.csv.
So the problem that you'll get
back immediately is an error.
It says,
line 1 did not have 13 elements and
the reason why is because there's
commas separating cameras.csv.
But the default for read.table() is
to look for a tab delimited file.
So if you actually try to
look at this variable,
cameraData, it doesn't exist,
because R wasn't able to read it in.
So what we can do instead is read.table()
with setting the sep command.
So this is the separation,
we're gonna set it equal to quotes comma.
And so what that does is it says,
look through the file and
assume that all the different values
will be separated by balance.
We're also gonna tell it header = TRUE,
because the variable names are included
at the top of each column in the file.
So if we do that and assign
the results to cameraData variable and
then use the head command, this will
look at a top few rows of that file.
And so for example, on the first row,
now we see that data on the first Camera.
It wraps around, because of the way
that the slide looks here, but
each row has now been read into one
row of the cameraData variable.
You can also use read.csv in the case that
you have a csv file, it automatically
sets sep equal to the quote comma and
it automatically sets header = TRUE.
And so, if you have a CSV file, which
is one of the most common flat formats
that you'll see for data,
you can use the read.csv command.
Some more important parameters
that you can pass, for
example, to read.table is
you can tell it quotes.
So for example, you can say,
whether there are quoted values.
If you say, quote = " ", like that.
You get no quotes in the file,
na.strings tell r what the character
is that represents a missing value.
So the most typical character that
you'll see in our datasets in na, but
that character might also be minus 1 or
999, 99 or something else.
Nrows tells you how many
rows in the file to read.
So for example, if you only wanna
read the first ten lines of the file,
you can use nrows = 10 as one of the
arguments to the read.table() function.
Skip will also tell you how many
lines to skip before you read.
So for example, suppose you wanna
read the 3rd through the 13th line,
you would set skip equal to 2 and
nrows = 10.
So my experience suggest that
the biggest common problem
that I see in a lot of files
is that you see one of
these quotation marks placed
in the data value somewhere.
So when that happens, R gets confused,
because it's not looking for those quotes.
And so if you set quote=" ",
this often resolves those issues and
then you won't have to deal with them.
So it's just a helpful tip, whenever you
see sort of data sets that aren't getting
read in or
getting read in as very long vectors,
setting this quote variable in that
way can be one way to address it.